2013 Volvo s60 t5

Intro:

The 2013 Volvo s60 has been around for quite [kwīt] some time now.
How it compares to newer passenger sedans and is it worth to pick up one from the used market 6 years later, is what
we are going to talk about today.

Intro Video.

For the 2013 year S60 came with a turbo charged 2.5 inline 5 and a 3 liter inline 6 engines, producing
respectively 250 and 300 horse power.

1 power and transmission

	Our tester today is a FWD and has the more common 2.5 liter engine that produces 250hp at 5500 rpm,
	hence the performance review will be based on it.
	
	This vehicle comes only with one transmission, it's a 6 speed automatic by the Japanese company AISIN, which has
	a positive reputation when it comes to reliability and longevity.

	Fuel economy is not great but is still decent. It's rated Up to 21 MPG in the city and 30 on the highway.
	Most people get on average 26 miles per gallon.
	
	Using regular gas on this vehicle is just fine but Volvo recommends premium grade for better performance and fuel economy.

	Dimensions wise: it is 182″ Long x 73″ Wide and Height of 58″
	
Overall NHTSA safety rating: 5 star
	


2 Exterior and design
	Our tester comes in what volvo calls it the Savile Grey color which in my opinion contributes
	to design what I consider to be on the conservative side with clean lines, very stylish and very European.
	it runs on 17" five spoke wheels and the tire size is 215 mm width and 50 mm height
	
	the door handles come in body color and are equipped with lock and unlock sensors, so you can keep the key fob in you bag or pocket.
	we have body painted side mirror with integrated LED blinkers and a light for the floor when you approach the vehicle and unlock it.
	
	Moving to the front we see the corporate volvo grill with chrome accents and a proud and bold volvo badge in chrome and dark powder blue.
	
	The headlights are standard halogen which in my opinion takes away from the premium feeling of the car, but the ones with a higher trim 	level come with halogen projector lights.
	We have LED daytime running lights for all trim levels and is definitely a nice touch.

	The car is also equipped with a rain and city safety sensors. The city safety sensor helps in stop and go traffic and also monitors for 	pedestrians.

	Volvo has a lot to offer in the back of the vehicle as well. We see dual exhaust pipes, which are real. LED accent tail lights, beautifully 	written VOLVO sign in chrome.

	Trunk offers 12 cubic feet of cargo space with foldable rear seats for even more room.
	
3 Interior and cargo specs

	The 2013 Volvo S60 exterior is still an eye catching with its design but let's check the interior now.
	
	My tester has genuine leather seats in excellent shape, 6 point power adjustable front seats. The driver seat
	supports memory feature for up to 3 drivers.
	In terms of ergonomics, comfort and support, s60 probably has the best seats in the class
	
	The door feels solid and shuts well but to me the german competitors are winners here.
	Door panel is soft to the touch with padded arm rest wrapped in leather.
	We see nice looking aluminum trims and door handle also in aluminum.
	Here are your window controls with fully automatic windows for all 4 doors, I would not expect anything less.
	
	Moving to the steering wheel it is 3 spoke, leather wrapped with the same aluminum accents. It looks and feels luxurious.
	Here are the cruise controls, infotaiment system and audio controls, horn. 
	The dashboard has beautiful design, soft to the touch of course with the volvo signiture waterfall central console.
	
	The central console is the home for you heated seats controls, 
	Controls for the dual zone AC and HEAT, which features air quality monitoring system for the cabin.
	Crystal Clear shifter with LED illumination which in my opinion fits excellent with the rest of the interior.
	Two cup holders with cover and a good size padded arm rest with storage and USB port.

	Now the infotainment system is what makes this vehicle look dated. 
		It comes with well sized 7 inch display, 
		it supports sirius satellite radio and a bluetooth.
		offers information and settings about the vehicle,
		
		the graphics are not the best quality but still ok I like the font that Volvo uses for many years now.
		it lacks navigation, touch screen, and back up camera that today come standard for most new vehicles.
		it has 6 speaker audio system which sounds pretty good, you will not have complains there.

	Let's now move to the back and see how it feels there.
		
		s60 continues to deliver in terms of comfort and materials here as well.
		The seats are excellent with genuine leather, door panels have the same excellent quality materials just like
		the front ones.
		The arm rest between both seats is nicely done. It has two cup holders.
		
		I am 6ft tall and have good amount of leg room
		It's a good place to spend time in traveling.
		


4 road test
	- 2013	23,210 in US
	- acceleration 
	- handling
	- steering is direct and heavy, gives a feeling of confidence that the car will
	go in the direction we want it to. enthusiast will appreciate it.
	- transmission
	- brakes
	- independent front and rear suspension
	- Power Steering is speed sensitive
	
	
For this year and model prices vary based on milage, history and condition but you will find a
good one in anywhere between 10 and 13 thousand dollars with less than 80k miles on the clock.

I prepared a list with cars available currently on the market. Link is in the description.

Thank you for watching, If you enjoyed the video please consider subscribing. It really does help and I will catch you 
in the next one!

https://www.cars.com/for-sale/searchresults.action/?mdId=21916&mkId=20044&page=4&perPage=20&rd=99999&searchSource=PAGINATION&shippable-dealers-checkbox=true&showMore=false&sort=price-lowest&stkTypId=28881&yrId=47272&zc=78258&localVehicles=false